# Heraclitus Notes for Essay 
## Pushkar's Initial notes on pages 1-100 of The Art and thought of Heraclitus
- Very little direct quotation/ sources available. Have to rely on commentaries / scraps of translation. 
- The stoics derived their philosophy from a deep contemplation of Heraclitus work, though there was some deformation in the process.
- He had a lot of contempt for his contemporories, esp. Pythagoras. 
- His work contains a lot of chastising of his society. He felt that they were too opinionated and naive and fooled by poets. 
- The most important characterization of his philosophy is in the reconcilliation of the dualiities that contrants visible in life and nature. He does this through multiple ways. Like the fact that hunger is the reason we value satiety, war is the reason we value peace. He seeks to reconcile the notion of justice with that of war and violence. 
- Heraclitus has a deep exposition on the nature of death and it's dualities with life. Reconciling the fact that life comes to an end in a philosophical structure was important to him 
- He doesn't do much work on natural physics . His main idea of cosmology is that the sun is a foot long ball of fire that disappears and is born anew each morning, in an immutable cycle. 
- His theology deviates significantly from that of established greek ideas. Unlike Homer who essentially anthropomorphizes the gods and forces of nature, assigning to them human qualities, Heraclitus argues that there is one unifying divine/ cosmic force that is incomprehensible to humans, That it has values that we cannot ever attain. He does this by comparing Gods to humans as humans are to apes, that the most beautiful ape still doesn't compare in beauty of intellect to the average human. 
- His views on deontology flow from this. He argues that there is a single unifying cosmic order that governs values such as justice and that individual value and justice should to aligned to this cosmic order. This is where he achieves his unification of the duality between the responsibility one has to the society and the state and the personal need for valour and glory that the greeks prized. He argued that the only valuable glory and valour is one which is consistent with the divine order. 

## Notes on the commentary in the book 
- He rights about the human experience and life in epistemic terms, and focuses less on the nature of reality and more one the difficulty of comprehending reality [Page100] 
- He claims that even experiences teach men nothing at all. They treat them as  opinions without reflecting deeply on the underlying causes. 

## His epistemic method 
- He values subjective truths brought out by one's own experiences over the hearsay and teachings tha thave been handend down by others [Fragment55,101a,107,19]
- He claims that wisdom is like an enigma, difficult to comprhend and grasp but easy at this same time. It is about what we see and grasp, but also about what we ordinarily do not see and grasp. 
- His work focuses on answer what is wise, above all [Page114]
- He argues that human law and order flows directly from a divine cosmic order/ justice. This forms the basis of both his epistemology and ethics. Things that are good musy be so for the common good, for civic wellness and soundness. He found some principles that commonly apply to all men. 
- He argues that thinking well is the greatest excellence, see and percieving what is true [Pg119]. Specifically this means that the best thing to do is to align your thoughts and actions with that of the cosmic order. 
## Fundamental ontology 
- He argues that the order of night of day and the precision of the cycle is fundamentally enforced by some Cosmic Justice itself, which he attritubutes to god, moving away from standard theology. He uses this cycle to introduce the notion of unity of opposites and paradoxes: Night and day are merely parts of a single universal cycle. [PG109]
- He focuses on the duality between logic of man and the fundamental order of the universe through the dual use of the word Logos to describe both. 
Heraclitus is a polarizing figure in the history of philosophy. Little survives of his work save fragments and hearsay in works of other philosophers. Little of what is told about his life, such as his birth around 500 BCE is known are proven to be true and most accounts are believed to be fictionalized stories. [Diogenes Laertius 9.1–17]. However several partss of his philosophy were groundbreaking at that time and can find parallels in several modern thoughts and philosophies making a study of his work very interesting.  
 In order to truly appreciate his work one must understand the society and culture that he operated in. Heraclitus was deeply contempous both of his intellectual contemporaries such as Pythagoras as well the rest of society, who he felt were too opinionated and passed off poetry from the homeric tradition as wisdom.  It is in this context that his philosophy gains greater significance than is immedietly obvious. Greek society at that time was in a deep philosphical conflict over the nature of the best possible life, the quality of 'aerte' that is different in the Illiad, with Achilles and The Odyssey with Odessues. \. This is where his unification of contradictions attempts to reconcile those differences and provides a new frame to obtain value through a cosmic justice become significant [1] 
