## The Transformative Revolution of Buddhism in Modern Society

Buddhism has emerged from its isolation in East Asia and gained 
prominence around the world today. The 20th and 21st centuries, 
recovering from the horrors of the world wars, brought a new 
spiritual desire across the world for a philosophy of peace and 
acceptance that was more rational and relevant than Christianity 
in a world of science. Buddhism filled this gap — led by many 
different masters across sects, like the Vipassana movement in 
India, Thich Nhat Than's Zen and Mahayana teachings, and even 
western masters like Bernie Glassman. While their methodologies 
may differ, they are united in their unwavering focus on 
overcoming all sentient beings' suffering at a personal, 
spiritual, societal, and environmental level.

Unlike the misconception that Buddhism seeks to detach itself 
from all worldly matters, it engages with society both 
politically and economically. This interaction is justified by 
the Madhyapratipat. The suffering of poverty and hunger, of the 
violence many face on a day-to-day basis, is terrible, and 
instead of passively accepting this suffering, Buddhism argues 
that we must seek a middle path to reduce it. The teachings of 
Anattā, or no-self, and the Pratityasamutapada cultivate a 
compassionate, nonjudgemental attitude that emphasizes the 
interconnectedness of the self, society, and the environment. 
This allows us to combat three social ills — the first, poverty 
throughout the world. By avoiding the rampant, toxic consumerism 
of the western world and developing compassion for all those 
suffering, we are better able to use our resources to aid those 
suffering. The second is the violence seen across the world. By 
developing compassion and a nonjudgemental attitude towards even 
our adversaries, we can break the cycle of seeking revenge and 
move towards reconciliation and healing, such as the Dalai 
Lama's philosophy. This also allows us to develop communal 
harmony in places with ethnic conflict, as was seen by the 
emphasis on communal living by Sarvodaya in Sri Lanka. Finally, 
by realizing the interconnectedness we have with the 
environment, we may spur collective action to stop the 
environmental degradation resulting from the unchecked 
consumption we have today.

Buddhism, at its core, is more minimal than a religion. The crux 
of the Buddha's teachings in the eightfold path provides a 
minimal set of guidelines without elaborate rituals that allows 
us to walk towards satisfaction and happiness. This is aided by 
the practice of Metta and Karuna, creating a sense of goodwill 
and compassion for the whole world. This allows people stuck in 
the suffering of their day-to-day lives to find new sources of 
gratitude and peace beyond the narrow identity based on 
consumerism pushed by modern capitalist society. Empirical 
studies have also shown that the emphasis on the right 
consumption and mindfulness significantly improve people's 
mental health.

Further, Buddhism's nonjudgemental and accepting nature has made 
it a refuge for marginalized groups, with offshoots like gay 
Buddhism and feminist Buddhism. It provides hope and opportunity 
for reform, overcoming past wrongdoing and trauma. Therefore, 
Buddhism is a powerful tool for enriching personal lives in the 
modern day.
