## Buddhism WHatever 

### History 

For centuries, Buddhism remained isolated to East Asia, and while branches of it
emerged, influenced by different philosophies, cultural influence would remain
limited till it did not escape its confines. However, the 20th and 21st century, recovering from the horrors of the world wars brought with it a new spiritual desire across the world for a philosophy of peace and acceptence that was more rational and relevent than Christianity in a world of science. It was Buddhism that filled this gap, gaining huge prominence across the world. This movement was led by many different masters across sects, like the Vipassana movement in India, Thich Nhat Than's zen and Mahayana teachings and even western masters like Bernie Glassman. While their methodologies may be very different, they are united with thier unwavering focus on overcoming the suffering of all sentient beings, at a personal, spiritual,societal and environmental level. 


### Society 
Unlike the misconsception that buddhism seeks to detach itself from all wordly matters, Buddhism has been engaged politically and economically. This can be justified through the Madhyapratipat. The suffering of poverty and hunger, of the violence many face on a day to day basis is terrible, and instead of passively accepting this suffering, Buddhism argues that we must seek too reduce it. Some authors like Thich Nhat Than explicitly interpret the 1st precept, take no life, as a call to actively help others overcome their suffering. The teachings of annata, or no self, and the pratityasamutapadda together cultivate a compassionate, nonjudgemental attitude that emphasises our interconnectedness. This allows us to combat three social ills. The first, poverty throughout the world. By avoiding the rampant, toxic consumerism of the western world and developing compassion for all those suffering, we are better able to use our resources to aid those suffering instead of wasting it on making better cars. The second is the violence seen across the world, such as the conflict in Isarel and Palestine. By developing compassion and a nonjudgemental attitude towards even our adversries, we are able to break the cycle of seeking revenge and move towards reconciliation and healing. This also allows us to develop communal harmony in places with ethnic conflict, as was seen by the emphasis on communal living by Sarvodaya in Sri Lanka. Finally, by realising the interconnectedness we have with the environment, we may spur collective action to stop the environmental degradation that is coming as a consequence of the unchecked consumption we have today.   


### Personal 

The second, its adaptability. Buddhism at its core is more minimal than a
religion, less weighted. The crux of the Buddha's teachings, in the noble eight fold path, provide a minimal set of guidelines without elaborate rituals that allows us to walk towards satisfaction and happiness. The notion of no-self or anatta is sometimes misunderstood as a complete detachment of self. Several modern interpretations, however choose to emphasize the interconnectedness of the self, society and environnment. This is aided by the practice of Metta and Karuna, creating a sense of goodwill and compassion for the whole world. This allows people, stuck in the suffering of their day to day lives find new sources of gratitude and peace beyond the narrow identity based on consumerism pushed by modern capitalist society.. Empirical studies have also shown that the emphasis on right consumption and mindfullness significantly improve people's mental health, therby becoming important aids to psychiatry. Further, the nonjugdemental and accepting nature of buddhism have made it a refuge for marginalized groups, with offshoots like gay buddhism and feminist buddhism. The idea of no-self means that the emphasis isn't on who you are, but what you can become, thereby providing hope and opportunity for reform, overcoming past wrongdoing and trauma. Therefore, Buddhism is a powerful tool for enriching personal lives in the modern day. 
